[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
We all understand
that art imitates
life, but what's
really fascinating is
when life imitates art.
This is also where
conspiracy comes in,
hiding in plain
sight, as it were.
Jay Dyer analyzes the hidden
symbolism in Hollywood films
and shows us how the agendas
for humanity's future
have all been laid out for
us to see, if we choose to.
And most of us do not--
that's the other half
of that sentence.
Welcome, I find your
work really fascinating.
And we were talking
a bit off camera.
And I've even written
blogs about where
are philosophers
when we need them,
where is Socrates
when we need him.
And that's your
background, right?
>>JAY DYER: It
is, yes, actually.
There aren't philosophers
because it has been
intentionally done away with.
The whole idea--
>>REGINA: Yes it has.
>>DYER: The liberal arts,
critical thinking, logic--
all these things have been
intentionally weeded out
of the educational system.
So I love the ability to go in
and dissect films to compare it
with what's happening in
geopolitics, modern politics,
literature, any of those areas.
And what we see in
art is, like you said,
it's a real
presentation of what's
going on, as opposed to what
we often see in the mainstream
news.
So you actually get more
truth nowadays in fiction
than you'll get on
mainstream truthful news.
>>REGINA: No, that's true.
And it's as though media is
the modern iteration of the use
of philosophical thinking now.
There is no other venue for it.
It's certainly not
going to happen
in politics,
business, education--
not going to happen.
Critical thinking is not
happening there at all.
>>DYER: Right.
>>REGINA: I mean, it's
really mostly repeat, right--
repeat after me.
>>DYER: It is.
And I think we're
going to get into that.
You talk about repeating, and
there's an ancient Greek idea
of mimesis.
And this is crucial to
the Greek conception
of art and philosophy.
And what that is is a copy.
And so Philip K.
Dick, for example,
actually used this
as a title in one
of his stories, "Simulacra."
And that's going
to play into all
of the analyses of
the Philip K. Dick
films in terms of how it's about
a synthetic virtual reality.
And some of the most
important philosophers
of the 20th century actually
wrote really influential
treatises on that.
Jean Baudrillard
wrote a whole essay
within a book that's called
"Simulacra and Simulation."
And what he talks about
is how we're being
immersed into a virtual realm.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: That is
intended to replace
a sort of synthetic
overlay, that's intended
to replace the real world.
>>REGINA: Organic thought.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And we're getting
into some really cool films.
First of all, before
we get into that,
how did you decide to apply
your philosophical bent
into the world of film?
>>DYER: Well, my family was a
big fan of the arts, always,
and my mom was a librarian.
So I was surrounded
by literature,
surrounded by stories.
And naturally I loved movies.
So I always wanted to
do comedy and theater.
Did a lot of that
in high school.
But when I got into
undergrad and grad school,
I decided to focus on the
most relevant versions
of those things
that I could find.
And I drifted towards
philosophy because that
is such an overarching
thing that can combine
all of these fields into one.
And so you can do a
philosophy of film,
you could do a
philosophy of comedy,
you could do a philosophy
of economics-- anything.
And it's a way to have a
big skill picture of things.
So I looked at the
possibility of starting a blog
and eventually trying to
write a book, which I did,
that combined a whole
bunch of film analyses.
But they're not--
>>REGINA: "Esoteric Hollywood."
>>DYER: It's not Roger Ebert,
it's Roger Ebert on acid.
>>REGINA: Right, gotcha.
>>DYER: I don't like
to talk about it.
So we're going to
look at everything
from the occult layer
to the geopolitical,
the philosophical layer,
the satirical layer.
Any of these layers
will actually
show us, as I say, more reality
than the mainstream news.
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
and it's kind
of following in the footsteps
of our in-house man, Jay
Wagner, who has done a lot
of film analyses in his day
as well.
And you guys--
Jay, Jay-- you guys are quite
the pair on your analyses
and you both do beautiful work.
>>DYER: I'm a big fan.
I loved his Kubrick analyses.
And actually when
I saw his stuff,
I'd written a few
film analyses by then.
I thought, you know
what, if he can do it,
I should write a book too.
And I think we really
resonate because we
have a lot of the
same analyses, which
I think speaks to the
truthfulness of what we're
talking about.
>>REGINA: I agree.
>>DYER: I was in college
studying film and taking
film classes, and taking
philosophy classes.
And everybody's going to watch
"2001" if you're in college,
it's required.
So everything that I
saw in the film really
resonated with what
he talked about.
Now there's a couple of
divergences that we have.
But overall, we're
on the same page.
>>REGINA: Well, and it's
needed because that's
where people's
attention is drawn,
which is whatever is easy.
And whatever can be
engaged with easily,
that's what we as a species
have been conditioned to.
So not only is the analysis
of films absolutely
essential to pull
the layers back,
but also to understand
the degree of manipulation
for the masses
themselves, to understand
the degree of
manipulation that's
happening through the media.
>>DYER: You know what's
amazing is that I
mentioned the Greeks earlier.
I did a lecture series
on "Plato's Republic,"
all 10 books of it.
And what you'll find
out is that Plato even
talked about in
his day the ability
of the theater and drama and
music combined with it to be
used at the behest of the
state to actually manipulate
the population.
>>REGINA: He was right on.
>>DYER: So even in his
day it was the exact same.
It was no different
than it is today.
And so now the
techniques have just
been so specified with
scientific precision
that psychological warfare
and propaganda have all
been combined by
the state apparatus
to basically give
us our world view.
And that's what I try to
deconstruct and oppose.
>>REGINA: Right, and good
work you do, by the way.
I'm going to just list off
here some of the subjects
we are going into--
weather wars,
predictive programming,
use of media in programming
humanity, trancehumanism,
technology and brain interface,
using global weather for larger
agendas of the elite, AI, time
dimension rifts and realities,
my favorite-- gravity/love,
eugenics, the Templars,
Hermetics, Kabbalah,
all of this--
I mean, the Kabbalah.
Each of these movies
represent certain
of these subject matter.
I thought we would
start with the 1987 film
starring Arnold Schwarzenegger,
our favorite actor,
called "The Running Man."
And by the way, I went back
and watched all of the films
so that I would have them fresh
in my mind for this interview.
And I have to say, I
really was impressed
having seen it so
many years later
with the degree of accuracy
of the message in this one.
And so let's just go for it,
let's go for "Running Man."
Predictive programming using
national news agendas--
lay out the whole plot.
>>DYER: "Running Man" is
based on a Stephen King story,
which is essentially this
idea of gladiatorial games.
And he's looking back to the
Roman Empire and he's saying,
the Roman Empire was able
to control its population
through these large-scale
gladiatorial games that
involved just total brutality.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: And so
what's crucial there
is the desensitization and
brutalization of the populace.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: Right, so if the
population can be brutalized
and desensitized,
then they're atomized,
then they're no
longer interested in
or have any compassion or
concern for their neighbors.
That's the key
psychological component
that Nero understood
when he was putting
on these grand
gladiatorial games.
And it's what I think
Stephen King is trying
to highlight in this story.
Now when it's put
into the film version,
there's a little bit of a
divergence between the film
and what King wanted to
present in his story.
Now what we get
here is a dystopia
where unlike a lot of dystopias
the focus is a large scale
corporate state
conglomerate, the privatized
and the public sphere
coming together
in this giant media corporation
that controls reality.
>>REGINA: Kind of
like BBC or NBC.
>>DYER: Like any of
those, absolutely.
And that's why
it's so prescient.
And it also talks about
the beginning of the film
this period of total
economic collapse.
And it's actually talking about
our day, 2016, 2017 period.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>DYER: And so--
>>REGINA: I think
it's set in 2017?
>>DYER: I think so, yeah.
And that's pretty
phenomenal because a lot
of what's in this film in 1987
is our daily existence now.
>>REGINA: Yes it is.
>>DYER: So I don't
think it's accidental.
And that's one of
the things I often
talk about is that there are
so many examples of this stuff
that it can't just
be coincidence
or happenstance, right?
I think that a lot of people
in the establishment and people
that write science fiction
and so forth, screenplays,
I think that they are
tipped off and they
know things that are going on.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DYER: So they're
telling us ahead of time,
and that's predictive
programming
that we'll get to later.
But I guess what stands out as
most phenomenal in this film
is the ability of that
state media apparatus
to completely manipulate
the population
through synthetic reality
that we've been talking about.
>>REGINA: You know what,
let's take a peek at a clip
right here that discusses that.
It demonstrates that.
>>DYER: OK.
>>REGINA: OK.
>> For 50 years, we've told
them what to eat, what to drink,
what to wear.
For Christ's sake, Ben,
don't you understand--
Americans love television.
>>REGINA: I mean, I just found
it so interesting-- for 50
years, we've been telling people
what to eat, what to drink,
and what to think.
So backdate that
from 2017, right?
And essentially,
they have created
a species of people
that is completely
lacking in any compassion.
I mean, like you say,
the gladiatorial throwing
Christians to the
lions type of scenario.
>>DYER: And that's what
"Hunger Games" exemplifies.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
what I wrote down here.
This is almost like a
precursor to "Hunger Games."
>>DYER: Absolutely.
One crucial piece of evidence
I think that demonstrates
that this is not
coincidence is that is
there's a scene when
Arnold is on the run,
he hops on the infonet.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: And he orders
his plane tickets,
he's going to try to get
away from the government.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And this is 1987.
Most people, except
for those that
maybe worked in
the establishment,
I don't think knew
what the internet was
or that it was coming in 1987.
But the film presents
it as a daily reality
for the people in the dystopia.
And as we said earlier, the
state apparatus controls music,
they control the arts.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: What you can
produce, what you
can talk about in your
shows, and your lyrics.
And it's amazing
because it echoes
not just what we saw
in East Germany, where
we would see similar things.
There's a film
called "Das Leben der
Anderen," which is "The Lives
of Others," which details--
>>REGINA: Oh, I love
"The Lives of Others."
>>DYER: The lives of
people in East Germany
under that strict
communist control.
And we tend to think in the
West, oh, that's not us,
that's them.
>>REGINA: Oh, no.
>>DYER: It's no different.
It's just a different selling
point, a different marketing
tool of the system
that we live under,
which is that it's combined with
all the scientific techniques
of mind control.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
so in this plot,
Arnold Schwarzenegger,
who goes against an agenda
to begin with with killing
innocents in a village,
is now an enemy of the state.
Now he's the hunted.
And so in this
particular reality show,
before reality
shows existed, he is
the one who's going to
be hunted by the hunters.
>>DYER: He's the patsy.
>>REGINA: He's the patsy.
>>DYER: And a large
portion of that creation
of the myth of the patsy
involves the state apparatus
concocting made-up news.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DYER: They just make up
stories about his past.
They said that he was
involved in this giant terror
attack, which actually
he was trying to stop it.
>>REGINA: He was
trying to stop it.
>>DYER: Killing all
these civilians.
So it shows the ability
of the establishment
to really craft these
backstories, these legends,
about people that are not true.
And we know we think of
these people that stand out,
like maybe Osama bin Laden
or someone like that,
who previously worked for the
Western establishment in 1979,
right, in the 1979 Afghanistan
situation with the training
and recruiting the mujahideen.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DYER: And then we see, even
in the '80s Ronald Reagan named
the space shuttle after
the mujahideen, the freedom
fighters, which will become
the Taliban and al-Qaeda.
I mean, it's not
accidental that even
in mainstream news in
the '80s, you could
you could see this going on.
And then of course
into the '90s,
al-Qaeda becomes the bad guy
with the 1993 World Trade
Center.
But it's still the
same establishment
that runs the good guys and
the bad guys, so-called.
>>REGINA: Oh yeah,
exactly, it's just a show.
The whole point being
to lull the public
into a state of
complete passivity,
as well as completely
lacking any compassion, which
is fascinating, because
this is a glitzy game show
and they keep showing the
audience members as grannies.
That's what's so interesting
is that there is no one that's
beyond the control
of this instilling
brutality and an
acceptance of it.
>>DYER: There is an
actual term for this
that the Frankfurt
School theorists--
these are a group of Eastern
Bloc Marxists that kind of fall
in the tradition of Karl
Marx, and they wrote primarily
on culture.
So they quit caring about the
economic concerns of Marxism
in the 20th century.
And they said, we need to focus
on how we can create what they
called the Theater of Cruelty.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And this is the idea
that you can brutalize people
through such traumatic events
that they are desensitized.
They kind of fall into
a catatonic state.
And that's the purpose
of this, gets weaponized.
And it's actually a warfare
technique that's then
applied to mass communications.
>>REGINA: Well,
if you look at it
from the hypnotic
point-of-view, trauma
is the greatest foundation
for programming.
>>DYER: Absolutely, absolutely.
>>REGINA: Because your being is
open and receptive to anything
that can feel like
effects because
of that kind of annihilation
and desperation.
>>DYER: Right.
>>REGINA: And in this movie
in particular, but even
in some of the others, they're
really playing upon that.
>>DYER: The populace
lusts for this bloodbath.
They want to see him impaled
on spikes or whatever.
And they want to
see the big opera
guy who's decked in
looks like a Lite Bright,
he's decked in Christmas lights.
>>REGINA: He does,
I love this scene.
That's great, we can show
a little of that right now.
>>DYER: The Lite Bright killer.
But I think that what
it shows is again that,
and if you look at
the history of--
I don't want to
get too academic--
but if you look at the history
of the Frankfurt School,
they were actually
brought over to the US
at the time of World
War II by the OSS, which
is the precursor to the CIA.
The OSS saw that
they could utilize
the techniques of these
Frankfurt School writers
for Western propaganda.
So you would think that
that's counterintuitive.
Why would the West,
why would the OSS, CIA
be interested in
these Marxist guys?
Well, it's because they were
focusing on the weaponization
of culture.
And so they saw
that as a technique
to move masses of opinion
in a certain direction.
And that's why you get the
tie-in with this these guys,
and Walter Lippmann
and Edward Bernays.
>>REGINA: I was just going to
bring up "Century of Self."
For anyone who hasn't
seen "Century of Self,"
that's a fabulous documentary
series to take a look at.
>>DYER: Yeah, all
the guys who were
in the OSS, all these guys, they
go into CBS, Sarnoff, Paley.
And they also worked
at advertising.
>>REGINA: And Madison Avenue.
>>DYER: Advertising in
Madison Avenue, absolutely.
>>REGINA: Exactly, and that's
what I found fascinating.
I mean, there's some
examples were incredible.
So we'll just take
another look at a clip
where he's looking at the
news saying, wait a minute.
They're playing the news
about this traitor, Arnold
Schwarzenegger, and he's
looking at it, saying,
that's not what happened,
the opposite happened.
This happens all the
time in the news.
So let's take another peek.
>> Richards, a former police
officer was the helicopter
pilot who went berserk 18 months
ago without warning on a crowd
of innocent civilians.
>>REGINA: Another
thing, the competitors
had RFID chips in their collars.
Well of course this was long
before we had any understanding
that such a thing exists.
Talk about that for a moment.
>>DYER: Believe it or not,
that actually comes out
of the MKULTRA program.
There is an excellent
book that was written
by a guy named John Marks.
And it's called "The Search
for the Manchurian Candidate."
And in the last
chapter of that book--
that's probably the most
important chapter in that
book--
he talks about the
fact that MKULTRA, when
it was investigated and
supposedly shut down,
it would actually transition
into what's called MKSEARCH.
That was moved to
Fort Detrick and it
dealt with biological warfare.
So you can see the
connection between the use
of hallucinogens, LSD,
different ergots and so forth,
and how that would tie
into chemical warfare.
Now that's not all
they did there.
They also experimented
with electronic implants,
electrodes, and so forth.
This is where we get the MKULTRA
doctors like Jose Delgado, Dr.
Jolyon West, Dr. Ewen
Cameron, and others
testing out the possibility
of the implantable microchip.
And one other
point I'll make too
is that you can find Dr. Ewen
Cameron's research into what's
called a Schwitzgebel machine.
And this was actually
used for prison inmates.
And everybody's seen
this sort of the tag,
that you're like Lindsay Lohan.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>DYER: Where you're wearing
that thing on their leg.
Well, this is an older
plan from the '70s.
And it was this machine
that they concocted
that would actually tell you not
just the prisoner's location,
but also tell you
their heart rate.
So we think of maybe like
watches that we wear now.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>DYER: But now, so you say,
what was the point of that.
Well, it was a
psychological experiment
to see what would
happen to prisoners
who knew that they were
being watched at all times.
>>REGINA: At all times, right.
>>DYER: Much like the NSA
and the leaks that were told.
And so what does it do?
The chief technique or
the chief effect of that
is that people will self-police.
So the establishment
doesn't have
to worry about
what they're saying
or what they're
putting out as much.
If the people know that they're
being watched at all times,
they'll police themselves.
And you can actually
show that that
was a defined
technique coming out
of what's called
Panopticism, and this
is philosophers
like Jeremy Bentham,
Michel Foucault has
written a whole treatise
on this about how the prison
system that they erected
in the 1700s in
France and Britain,
it was basically an octagon.
In the center, you
had this guard tower
that could look in on the
prisoners at all times.
And the inner side of
their cells were open.
And you didn't even have to
have a guard in the tower
because it was blacked out.
>>REGINA: It was symbol for it.
>>DYER: Yes, and so you never
knew when you were being
watched or when you weren't.
And that just
caused self-policing
and self-censorship.
That's the whole point of
the Schwitzgebel machine.
>>REGINA: Interesting,
and that's
the way people justify, well,
if you don't have anything
to hide, then why do we mind
if anybody is watching us.
That's the flip side of that.
>>DYER: Well, why don't we
all just live in glass houses
then, right?
>>REGINA: Exactly, I
mean, it is interesting
how we are we being
manipulated down that road.
I've heard so many intelligent
people say, well, I
don't have anything to hide.
What difference does it make.
It's like, holy cow.
"Manchurian
Candidate," by the way,
we're not going
to talk about it.
Another absolutely
fabulous film.
And I interviewed a
woman Cathy O'Brien--
do you know Cathy's work?
Quite challenging.
But anyway, she described some
of the techniques used and some
of the people in our
current political scene
who were Manchurian candidates,
who she watched being broken
in the same way she was broken.
I don't want to get
into the names of them.
But this is a common phenomena
in the American and other
political scene, I'm imagining.
>>DYER: Yeah, I know I
went down a rabbit trail.
But what I was talking
about is exactly what
this film is presenting.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And it's 1987
and it's telling us--
and you're talking about
"Manchurian Candidate," that's
late 50s, right?
>>REGINA: Well, then they
had a remake a few years ago
with Liev Schreiber.
>>DYER: With Denzel, right.
And what I liked
about the remake
was that they transferred
it from being a state
thing to more of a corporate
thing where they're
going to assassinate the
president with these trigger
words and keywords.
And actually when you read
about Project BLUEBIRD, Project
ARTICHOKE, that's really what
they were experimenting with.
One of the other
doctors I didn't mention
was Dr. Estabrooks.
And his specialty was hypnosis.
And if you go to the DSMV-4,
which is the diagnostics--
and this is year 5, whatever
version they're on, right--
they still cite his hypnosis
article in the DSMV.
So you can find where he talked
about in his hypnosis article--
it's a famous 1973 or '76 piece
written in The New Scientist.
And it was talking about
how during wartime they
could actually use couriers and
have trigger words that they
could relay information in
alternate personalities.
So I think that the CIA has
worked on that for decades.
>>REGINA: And they
use sometimes some
of the most
beautiful technology.
Patrick Flanagan told me
that his neurophone, which
was confiscated from
him, which was used
to be able to
essentially speed up
the synaptic connections between
right and left hemispheres
and enhance your
ability to function.
I used it in a time
when I really needed it.
It's a phenomenal technology.
It was taken away.
And he told me privately that
the government was using it
for these kinds of projects.
>>DYER: Yeah, Jose
Delgado wrote a book back
in the '60s called "Physical
Control of the Mind."
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: And he was dealing
with those very topics.
So this is absolutely real.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
the other thing
is the notion that, when
I was watching the film,
I thought, this is a few years
later, this is "Wag the Dog,"
right?
And so that whole
scenario of creating
a fictionalized
version of reality
and then repeating it,
repeating it, repeating it,
until it becomes the fabric
of our collective reality
and memory.
>>DYER: Yeah, it's interesting
because Robert De Niro
is playing a character
who's loosely based on
what actually exists
in terms of a liaison
office between the
CIA and Hollywood.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: And so the
character that he's playing
is this guy who goes and he
hires a big time producer
in the film to stage a
war scene to distract
from a presidential scandal
that involved this girl,
and she's wearing a beret.
>>REGINA: Sound familiar?
>>DYER: A girl
scout outfit, which
is you can look at the date.
It was actually a few
months prior to the release
of the Monica Lewinsky scandal.
So there is, I think,
clear continuity of what
I call a continuity of agenda
or predictive programming
planning in that.
There's no other
way that they could
have known that because
Monica Lewinsky comes out
wearing this beret, right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: In the photos of her.
And the purpose of the
deflection was to--
well it served
many uses, but what
a lot of people who talk
about this film miss
is that there's a meeting
between the producer
and some of the CIA people.
And they talk about
the fact that it's now
going to shift out of these
older conflicts of the '90s,
like the Balkans.
And that's where they
create this fake war with--
it's actually
Kirsten Dunst who's
playing the little girl
who's the Albanian girl who's
got a bag of Tostitos.
>>REGINA: Like she
looks Albanian.
>>DYER: And they photoshopped
in a kitty, right.
>>REGINA: Right, exactly.
>>DYER: So this was a fake war.
And the purpose of
that is to shift,
as they say, out of the
Balkans into a war on terror.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And so this is
what we were getting
in the '90s as
preparation for 2001
and the global war on terror.
>>REGINA: We're going
to go to "Interstellar"
now, which has a lot of
beauty in it, in my opinion,
but also the whole notion
of potentially I guess,
you would say, lands
that have gone sour
and no longer are
able to produce foods.
And one would
speculate it has to do
with perhaps GMOs, chemtrails,
and everything else
that it's been
exposed to, right?
And I thought we'd go into
this little clip here.
Let's see here, it's
about an attempt
to find new places to
seed humanity, right?
OK, so before we even
start talking about it,
let's go into this
little film clip.
It's around 18 minutes and
15 seconds into the film, OK?
>> The ghost.
>> Grab your pillow
sleep in with Tom.
>>REGINA: Give us an
overview of that film
because some people
found it kind of complex.
Same guy that did,
not "Interception."
>>DYER: Christopher Nolan.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: "Inception."
>>REGINA: "Inception,"
right, exactly.
So he tends to deal with
multi-dimensional and complex
themes, dreams within dreams,
realities upon reality.
>>DYER: Always Jungian
archetypes in Christopher Nolan
films, absolutely.
Even in the Batman--
"Dark Knight Rises,"
the whole series
is full of Jungian archetypes.
And I think what stands
out about "Interstellar"
is that it's his homage to
"2001: A Space Odyssey."
Now there's a little bit of
a difference with Kubrick's
theory and conclusion and the
conclusion that Nolan comes to.
>>REGINA: So give us a
comparison of the two.
>>DYER: Right, well,
I think it would help
to understand "2001" first.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: So I'm sure
everybody has seen "2001."
Basically, my
analysis is that it
is a presentation of man
overcoming all limitations.
And when we think
of limitations,
I'm not talking about the
government or anything
like that.
I'm talking about actual
physical limitations.
So in our dimension, we can
speak of it as time and space.
And time and space, you're
limited in the directions
that you can go.
And this goes back to
ancient Greek philosophy
and Pythagoreanism.
So the way that they
would conceive geometry
is that you can only
go in six directions--
this way, this way, this
way, this way, this way,
and this way.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: Now that is a cube.
>>DYER: So this dimension
is literally pictured
in the Platonic solid as a cube.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: All right.
This will get into the Saturn
stuff that we talk about later.
So what Kubrick is talking
about with that monolith,
it's still a cube, is
that I believe it's
a sort of advanced AI itself.
And that's what has
been leading man
all along through these stages
of new eons of consciousness,
this evolutionary process, the
ascent of man, or apotheosis.
Now, what Kubrick
proposes is that man
has to fight AI in
overcoming it to achieve
the status of divinity,
deification, star child.
So there's this
battle that happens.
Now in Nolan's presentation
of "Interstellar,"
it's an homage to that.
But he differs a
little bit by saying we
don't have to have this battle.
What if AI is actually
a means by which we
could achieve the improvement
of humanity in a good way?
So I think he's trying to make
a statement that transhumanism,
AI, these things,
don't have to be bad.
There's nothing inherently bad
about technology or anything
like that.
It could be used
for good, I think,
is what he's trying to say.
>>REGINA: It would
appear so, yes.
And this then makes me reflect
on "Battlestar Galactica,"
for anybody that
watched it all the way
to the end, which I
adored that series.
Again, chicken or egg.
>>DYER: Right, with the
Cylons and the-- yeah.
The cloning.
>>REGINA: Yeah, the chicken
or egg in terms of AI,
because this AI has been in
existence for probably billions
of years--
millions, if not
billions of years.
Throughout the solar systems,
throughout the universes,
there are intelligent
civilizations
who've been using AI.
And who knows to what
degree it was even
used on our planet
in the early days?
>>DYER: I think
that is definitely
Kubrick's presentation
in "2001."
And I think you have to watch
it several times before you
get that idea.
But it also helps
if you go and look
at his co-creator, Arthur
C. Clark's other books
in that series, "3001."
The two come together, HAL
and Bowman, to form Halman.
So there's this merger
between the two,
and they become this
quasi-divine deified figure
that can traverse the universe
in some sort of chariot,
like a robot chariot.
>>REGINA: And everybody falls
on one side or the other
of how they feel about that.
>>DYER: I think that's
where Nolan comes in to say,
what if AI could
be used for good.
And what if it's a
participant in man's procedure
alongst this alchemical
path that he's
on throughout all of time.
I think that's what
Nolan is saying.
And that's why in
the end of the film
you see, just like
in "2001," it's
both the monolith and Bowman
that go into the Stargate.
At the end of "Interstellar,"
the Matthew McConaughey
character-- he flies
Lincoln into space,
I've got to do my Matthew
McConaughey impersonation--
they both, him and the
robot, both participate
in the stargate and they
both together achieve
this transcending of the
time and space limitations
through what's
called a tesseract.
That's a real
geometrical figure,
and it's proven mathematically.
A lot of people don't know that.
>>REGINA: Well, and
it's interesting,
as we get to the end of this
part of the conversation,
there's something
that trumps AI.
And that's what is the
most beautiful thing
about this story when I said
I found a lot of beauty in it.
But meanwhile, one of the
scenes in there, people
will watch that and say, now
why was that placed there.
And it's an academic environment
where they're saying,
well, you know we revised
history on the moon landing,
you know that, right?
I mean, that's been
revised to the real story.
Let's take a look at that clip.
>> She always
loved the pictures.
>> It's an old federal textbook.
We've replaced them with
the corrected versions.
>> Corrected?
>> Explaining how the Apollo
missions were faked to bankrupt
the Soviet Union.
>>REGINA: So why was that
included in the story?
>>DYER: It's interesting.
I think that there is a
term that you've probably
heard called Revelation
of the Method.
And I think it's about how
you reveal what you're doing.
And that itself as a
revelation can actually
be a form of
psychological warfare.
Now it sounds counterintuitive
because why would you
reveal what you're doing.
Now if you look at
psychology, there's
a technique called gaslighting.
And you can gaslight
somebody by telling them,
even in the midst of the
act, that you're not doing
the very thing you're doing.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: So sometimes
criminals will do this.
>>REGINA: Creating this
cognitive dissonance.
>>DYER: Yes, exactly.
Robbers might be like,
you're holding the purse,
I didn't rob you,
this is my purse.
>>REGINA: And you're totally
confused and stunned.
>>DYER: Yeah, there was a
great movie in the late '40s,
I think, called "Gaslight."
You have to see it.
>>REGINA: I've never
seen it, "Gaslight."
>>DYER: It's a great
film, George Cukor film.
>>REGINA: OK, yes.
>>DYER: So check out "Gaslight."
But the idea of
Revelation of the Method,
of telling what you're
actually doing in a film,
is a principle of gaslighting.
It's a principle of
psychological warfare.
So I think that you can
sometimes throw clues
out there, little red herrings.
And people will go
down trails and they'll
get confused and lost.
That's another technique.
And so I think that this section
about the film or the moon
landings being fake
was in there on purpose
as a kind of deflection.
That's my opinion on it.
>>REGINA: OK, interesting.
Now we go into the
notion of, well,
like GAIA has their Deep
Space series, right.
Going into the Secret
Space Program--
the space program--
and they address this
and it never ended.
But it exists for an entirely
different purpose now,
which is the reseeding
of humanity, right?
>>DYER: I think so.
>>REGINA: So let's go let's
go ahead and talk about that.
>>DYER: Well, that
is in the film.
A big part of this
movie is the idea
that Earth is no
longer inhabitable.
And through whatever means
of destruction, through GMOs
or geoengineering,
or whatever, we've
got to look for another way
to continue the human race.
But what this actually means
in the film's narrative is
a group of elites
basically, the secret space
program, the secret
NASA, they're
the ones that are
going to continue on.
And believe or
not, this is really
a repeat of the 1970s film
based on the '50s novel
from Ian Fleming's "Moonraker."
That's the exact
plot of "Moonraker,"
is that they want to seek to
reseed the Earth in that film.
It doesn't have to
be on another planet.
But in that film, it's
reseeding the Earth
and wiping out the
rest of the population
through depopulation and
basically biological warfare.
So the best that I can make
out of what this secret space
program is is really, again,
the fact that it also has
to deal with underground bases.
And I've done a lot
of research on that.
So it's not just the
space-out-there program,
it's also just like we said
with "2001," it's space
itself being given to
a privileged elite.
And the rest of us, this
is not your space anymore.
>>REGINA: No, not yours.
I had a dream
almost 20 years ago.
It was in '99.
I had a dream, it
was incredible.
It was a natural
kind of phenomena
that was taking place, roiling
through the sky, black,
roiling through the sky.
And people were in a panic.
And it is really profound
in the end of this dream.
And I was just
walking in the streets
looking at the different panic
and what people were choosing
to protect, how they were
choosing to exclude each other
and only protect themselves
and keep others away
from any kind of benefit
in this situation.
And toward the end, I go
into this beautiful circular
building.
It was a reflective
circular building,
like a donut from above.
And people of all ilks lived
there, all races, ethnicities.
There was no bias of any kind,
socioeconomically as well.
And they had a higher
understanding of life.
And this is my hero
part of the dream.
I'm standing on this grassy
knoll and I'm telling them,
there's only one thing that
matters now-- and that is love.
You have only time
to do one thing.
Forget the burdens
and project love into
and where you can now.
And meanwhile, a black
limousine pulls up
and both President Nixon
and President Clinton
get out of the same limousine.
And telepathically, Nixon
is saying to the people,
she's right you know.
And Clinton telepathically
projects to me,
I wish you could come
where we're going,
we're going to be
taking care of.
And I telepathically said,
you chose this path in life,
I didn't, I'll stay
here with the people.
>>DYER: Are you sure it wasn't
Keanu Reeves and Patrick
Swayze wearing masks?
>>REGINA: No it wasn't.
>>DYER: That's a joke.
A sequence in "Point of
No Return," remember that?
I'm kidding.
>>REGINA: And I mean, it
was a profound dream--
and they drove down underground
with this black limousine
into the Earth.
And this is before I knew
about the underground bases.
And then Phil
Schneider's stories
started emerging in all of this.
>>DYER: It's funny--
is that you don't
have to go to conspiracy
or whistleblowing sites
or researchers to find out
about underground bases.
There was an old book written
by James Bamford in 1983.
It's the first book on the NSA
called the "Puzzle Palace."
And there's a section in
that book where he describes
a giant underground base.
Now this is not a
conspiracy book.
This is an official--
he's worked with
major news, right?--
official guy's book about this.
>>REGINA: I interviewed
one of the engineers who
used to blow the tunnels,
seven miles a day
with that high-tech machinery.
And he just gave a
nice engineering chat.
It was just like
listening to any engineer
talk about their daily work.
This is the real deal.
>>DYER: I think
that you can find
a connection between the
Star Wars Defense Initiative,
which is what
Reagan started back
in the late '70s, early '80s,
which is believed to be berthed
at Bohemian Grove.
You can actually find annals
from Bohemian Grove where
Nixon and Reagan
are there talking
about the birth of the SDI.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And this was the idea
of the weaponization of space
and the upper atmosphere.
And this would
include the things
that we're going
to talk about later
like VLF/ELF manipulation,
Tesla-style stuff.
All that's included
in the SDI plans.
This was also where
they'll martial
DARPA, which we know is the
Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency,
which deals with a lot
of militarized, high-tech
stuff for weaponization.
So the satellite networks
according to the SDI documents,
even at that time
in the early '80s,
they were working
on the possibility
of artificial
intelligence or Skynet.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: That's what they talked
about in those documents.
And a lot of this
is declassified
because it's the early
'80s, nobody cares anymore.
But even then, they
were working on Skynet.
>>REGINA: Yeah, absolutely, ok.
So let's go into the
notion of time itself.
And you're talking
here about the occult
and hermetic traditions
that are featuring Saturn
and how Saturn comes
into this story,
because Saturn means time.
And the antagonist in
the story, as you just
mentioned a while ago, is time.
And there's a real
sadness about that
toward the end of the film.
>>DYER: Yeah, that's
a great point.
The part of the point
of the film, I think,
that's a great insight on the
part of Nolan and the writers
is that, even if you love
the idea of technology
and you're obsessed with that,
you're still always going
to be limited because technology
is only going to be dealing
with things in this sphere.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And so if
you're obsessed
with that to the point of
materialism and all that,
reductionism as it's
called in philosophy,
then you're not open
to the possibility
of higher planes of existence,
higher realities, higher
dimensions.
And that's cutting you off to
the possibility of divine love,
higher love, because you're
obsessed with the material
and the here and now.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DYER: So time and space
are in a sense a limitation,
a kind of imprisonment,
that I believe is temporary.
I believe ultimately
we can transcend those.
>>REGINA: And we
don't need technology
to do that, by the way.
>>DYER: No, but I'm just
saying that I don't think,
and like Nolan is saying,
it doesn't have to be bad.
It's all in how we use it.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DYER: And Nolan is
saying that the way
that you transcend that is
a higher level of reality,
which is love.
And I think that
divine love is real.
And that's what's reflected
in the love between Matthew
McConaughey's character and
his daughter in the film.
And that's how they speak
outside of time and space.
>>REGINA: And that was the
beautiful element of it.
There are so many
beautiful elements
when the story started actually
coming together toward the end.
But another interesting
thing is that the males
in the film, all
the men in the film,
are beholden to the
dictates of technology
and the politics of the day,
including the elites lying
to their very own people
in the name of progression
of the species, saving the
race, technological advancement.
The women were the ones that
had the intuitive force to say,
I know where to go, I
know what matters here--
and Anne Hathaway,
in particular.
And I thought it would be
kind of cool to show this one
particular scene where Anne
Hathaway is talking about love,
because it comes up again.
Want to take a quick look?
>>DYER: All right.
>>REGINA: We'll look.
>> Love is the one thing we're
capable of perceiving that
transcends dimensions
of time and space.
>>REGINA: Of course,
she's ignored.
The guys ignore her.
Nah, I think we should
go to this other place.
And she's saying, no.
And she's made this point
that there is something
that trumps all of this.
So anyway, continue
on there now.
Because now we're getting
into constructed realities
that someone else has created
from the fifth dimension
out where they are after
they pass through the hole.
And they've literally
collapsed time and space
so it doesn't pass anymore.
And now something,
someone else, has
created from another
dimension that they're
in a third dimensional appearing
reality to interface in.
Let's talk about that.
>>DYER: It's amazing
that you point that out
because I didn't
know what you were
going to talk about exactly.
And I just this week read a
book by an Eastern-minded guy.
He's a very famous theologian
of the last century.
He's now passed away, but his
name is Dumitru Staniloae.
And he wrote a really
fascinating deep, deep, deep
book called "The
Experience of God."
And in that book, he
talks about all the things
that we're talking about.
And he says that time and
space are a kind of limitation,
a kind of prison.
And he talks about the
obsession with left brain
analytical thinking.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DYER: That cuts one
off from the other half
of what it is to be a human.
Now in this Eastern tradition
that I'm talking about,
going back to the Greeks,
he presents the anthropology
that man has a noose, which is
the eye of the mind for seeing
God.
There's a soul.
And then there's the heart.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And these are
the inner aspects of man.
There's also the body of course.
But he argues that all
these have to be in harmony
and that you can't divide and
have only the rational thinking
or only the intuitive,
emotional connection.
You've got to have all of these
things working in harmony.
And I thought it was amazing
the way he talked about that
because he also linked to eons.
And this is the Greek
term-- we keep going back
to the Greeks and
philosophy-- this
is the Greek term for
large scale ages of time.
And I do think that there are
influences on these large scale
ages.
And there's a really fascinating
history of philosophy
that's called traditionalism
or perennialism.
And you could look at
writers like Ren Gunon,
and he talked about how our age
was this vast period that would
be shifting into what
he called Kali Yuga.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: And I'm sure
you've heard some of that.
>>REGINA: I'm
familiar with that.
>>DYER: Ren Gunon was
a great philosopher.
And his works are
very similar to what
Dumitru Staniloae wrote about--
I'm not used to
saying Romanian names.
>>REGINA: Easy for you to say.
>>DYER: Romanian names, right.
But he talks about
how the eons are
things that are meant to
train us and lead us to God.
The time periods
in which we exist.
>>REGINA: Which coincides
with the Yugas, yeah.
>>DYER: They're
learning periods.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>DYER: And so they're
intended to direct us
beyond the here and the now
and the material and atomism
and these different
philosophies that
have come to dominate
Western thought, which
I think are disastrous.
I think that they're
a real tragedy.
Because now we live in an
era in which we can only
view man as a biological robot.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DYER: And believe it or not,
that is going to play into--
well, in my book, I talked
about "Blade Runner."
Now we're not going
to talk about that.
But one of the important
themes in "Blade Runner"
is that humans are
basically like robots.
And the robots, the
AI, are humanized.
So they're reversing that.
And that comes out
of MKULTRA, again,
because the
implantable electrode
that those doctors were working
on, that was part of MKULTRA.
So the whole transhumanist
movement is, believe it or not,
is a part of
MKULTRA, because it's
about programming the mind.
>>REGINA: You don't have
to convince me of that.
I'm on that page already.
I totally agree with that.
And I really don't like
seeing the glorification of it
as a result of that
because it's bypassing
some really critical elements
of our human development.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And trying to
artificially create results.
And if you start looking
into the individuals that
are really high up in the
AI movement, you'll see.
There is one thing, and I
don't use this term lightly,
but there's a deep
type of atheism.
>>DYER: Yes.
>>REGINA: That essentially
has no belief in anything
beyond the material realm.
Thus, you have to create
some kind of immortality
for yourself.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It's based on atheism.
>>DYER: But it's
only an immortality
of temporal progression.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DYER: It's not an immortality
that experiences anything
beyond the here and now.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
That's why I find it so
fascinating in Hollywood
that this thing keeps coming up.
>>DYER: And limiting.
That would be very limiting.
>>REGINA: Oh,
incredibly limiting.
So now we come to
the point in the film
that Matthew
McConaughey gets it.
He's in this cube-type
structure dimension.
>>DYER: The tesseract.
>>REGINA: Yeah, the tesseract.
And this has been
created by other beings
in the fifth
dimension-- have created
this third dimensional form
for him to interface with
and his path of discovery.
Let's take a look at what
happens once he finds himself
locked in it with his daughter.
And time has collapsed now.
You're seeing his daughter
young as a young girl.
You're seeing her as a woman
on the other side, kind
of shadowy.
Let's see what happens here.
>> I brought myself here.
We're here to communicate with
the three-dimensional world.
We're the bridge.
>>REGINA: I love this.
As soon as this
happened, I thought,
bingo-- there's your answer,
transcends everything.
Love is the only thing that
can permeate and create
a resonance strong enough to
permeate dimensions, time,
space, and to collapse it
altogether into a reality.
>>DYER: What's amazing is that
for the people that you're
talking about, these atheistic,
materialistic-minded people,
the tesseract, or
a hypercube, this
is a real geometrical thing.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: It's proven
mathematically.
It's not speculative.
But the argument always goes
that, well, if we can't see it,
then it must not exist.
But this is a
geometrical form that
by definition can't be seen.
It can only be seen through
the imprinting of itself
self in 3-D reality.
There's a great novel by a
Victorian writer, Edwin Abbott,
and it's called "Flatland."
and in "Flatland" he talks
about, imagine a 2-D plane,
and you've got Mr. Triangle,
like "Triangle Man, Triangle
Man," right?
"They Might Be Giants."
Then you've got this circle.
Now imagine like
a 3-D thing if it
was going to try to speak
to or imprint itself
on the 2-D people.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: If you took a circle or
a sphere and you smash it in,
you would just see a circle.
>>REGINA: Circle, exactly.
>>DYER: So they would
see things still
in the limitations of
that plane of existence.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And what he's
trying to demonstrate there
is that we still
know geometrically
that these things are real.
For example, there are crystals,
there are quasi-crystals,
for example, they have
the geometric structure
of a hypercube.
This is known, it's not debated.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And so that shows the
geometry and the mathematics
and the matrices of how
these crystals function.
Now we're sitting here
next to crystals, right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: It shows that the
tesseract or a hypercube
is a reality.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: And just
because we can't see it
doesn't mean it's not real.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DYER: There's
all kinds of things
that we can't see that are
real, like the laws of logic
are real.
>>REGINA: Well, we don't
need to even go into that.
Our audience is pretty
clear on that one.
Well, I found that
an amazing scene.
And then finally when you go
toward the end of the film,
his time has collapsed
completely, he hasn't aged.
So in this particular
scene I'm referring to,
Matthew McConaughey is now 124
years old, I think is the age.
And his daughter is probably
in her 90's or close to a 100
by now.
And having to come back into a
reality that has passed you by,
where everything has developed
without your presence,
there was something about
that scene, opening the door,
she went on to have kids and
grandkids and great grandkids.
And he was a young
man that had nothing
to do with any of his
own history, so to speak.
And I was feeling very sad when
I went to bed after watching
that, about this notion
of the flexibility
and the nuance of
what time even means.
And so I don't know
how that affected you.
>>DYER: That's a good question.
I do think time is
somewhat relative.
Especially after the
Enlightenment philosophers
came, we tend to think of
it as this substance that's
out there, like time is
going to get us or something.
Or it's some sort of entity.
It's not.
It's just really,
I think, the rate
at which we experience things.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DYER: A lot of it is,
I think, very mysterious.
We don't know all
the aspects of time.
But I know that sometimes if I
fall asleep, I'll have a dream.
And I'll feel like
it's taking forever.
And I wake up and
I've only been asleep
for like five or 10 minutes.
>>REGINA: Exactly, and the
whole scene has happened.
>>DYER: The experience of time
is in some way subjective.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: That has to be the case.
>>DYER: But I'm not saying
it's totally subjective,
but I think that it
ties into the same way
that we're limited by space.
And there is a deep connection
between time and space
in terms of this dimension.
In Staniloae's book,
"The Experience of God,"
he talks about how
the faculties of man
have to be aligned
correctly in terms
of human anthropology for us to
get out of this kind of prison,
if you will.
And so this eye of the mind
that we have for seeing God
and for seeing truth
as it truly is,
for seeing reality as it truly
is, that he calls the "nous"--
N-O-U-S. And this is an ancient
idea that even Plato talked
about.
It cannot be solely linked with
the mind or rational thought.
So rational thought
is not bad, but it
has to have a specific place
in anthropology underneath what
he calls the heart of man.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: And man is made with
all of these faculties that
are supposed to be
linked in unison.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DYER: And so when they're
operating in unison,
there is harmony
between intuition
and logical,
analytical reasoning,
left brain, right brain.
There's not this division.
And it's all seen
through the "nous."
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DYER: Reality is
seen appropriately
through the "nous."
And one other guy I would
mention that's awesome on this
is this older Eastern guy.
His name is Maximus,
Maximus the Confessor.
And he wrote a whole
bunch about the "nous"
and the eye of the mind seeing
what he called the logos,
or the logical principles
behind reality.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: And he's borrowing kind
of from that platonic tradition
there.
>>REGINA: It's interesting,
and Hollywood very seldom
unifies any story like this.
And I thought it was
beautiful in "Interstellar"
because they
actually unified it.
And even though
in my own sadness,
seeing what had
happened to this man
and his own sadness, that is
what he had missed in this,
I mean, granted it was
about temporal attachments.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: That
were bound by love.
>>DYER: And the love is what
allowed him to transcend that.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
So anyway, enough
on "Interstellar."
I thought it was so
good to see it again
after reading your
perspectives on it.
>>DYER: Thank you.
>>REGINA: And we only
have a few minutes left
because we're
having so much fun.
We have "The Avengers."
I thought we'd get to
that because that's
a relatively simple thing,
relatively speaking.
>>DYER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And so
let's talk about it.
Just lay the plot out
for us in "The Avengers."
And this is the 1998 "Avengers."
>>DYER: Yeah, it's
funny because I
was thinking, when you
said that, I was thinking
of the recent Marvel thing.
>>REGINA: No, no, no.
>>DYER: But no.
This is neat because this is
a Razzie Award winning film.
If you know about
the Razzies, that's
where they give the award for
the-- but it's not that bad.
And it's not that bad because,
in a predictive programming
sense, there are stunning
aspects of this movie.
It's like, what
the heck-- in 1998,
they're talking about
this giant weather--
>>REGINA: Weather wars.
>>DYER: And you've
got Uma Thurman.
You've got-- is it
Joseph or Ralph Fiennes?
>>REGINA: Ralph Fiennes.
>>DYER: Ralph
Fiennes, then, right.
And Sean Connery, of
course, playing Prospero,
who is this Scottish--
almost like we get
the idea there's
like a Scottish Rite Masonic
Lord who's going to basically--
>>REGINA: Engineer
essentially HAARP.
>>DYER: It's HAARP, right.
He's going to basically hold
the globe for ransom because
of his weather technology.
And there's also, I
should point out too,
the Uma Thurman character
is mind control.
She has alternate personalities.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DYER: And she's an assassin.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: So we get
British intelligence,
we get weather warfare.
All of that is in this.
Now the reality is that
in the '70s in his book,
"Between Two Ages,"
Brzezinski wrote
about the ability of
the state apparatus
through the secret of technology
to actually manipulate
the weather on a
large scale through
ionospheric manipulation.
And they would do this through
VLF and ELF frequencies.
And what that is is Extremely
Low Frequencies and Very Low
Frequencies.
And so when you beam
that at the ionosphere
and these different levels,
stratosphere, and so forth,
you can heat up the air.
This is what HAARP has
done for a long time.
And I think they're
actually way beyond HAARP.
HAARP is old '40s,
'50s-style technology.
>>REGINA: Yes it is.
>>DYER: They're way beyond that.
And that's what Brzezinski
was talking about in the '70s.
He says, in the future, you're
going to have the ability
to use things like the cell
phone towers to piggyback
and do this technology.
And what he says, amazingly--
this is the wildest part about
this-- is that not only can it
be used for
triggering earthquakes
and things like
that, but he says
that it can be
used to manipulate
the human frequencies
that we have,
the Schumann resonances
and so forth.
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
that makes perfect sense.
If you just dial into where
the brain in an alpha state
normally functions, you'd put
anything you want in there.
>>DYER: That's what they
were doing in those MKULTRA
experiments with Jose Delgado.
He was experimenting with
the human vibrations,
the different frequencies
that we resonate at.
And if you beam
these microwaves.
>>REGINA: Just slightly off,
just slightly off, but still
recognizable.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It's interesting.
And I saw another film recently.
It was a documentary called
"The Russian Woodpecker."
>>DYER: I've seen it.
>>REGINA: And that
gets into really
some of the political agendas,
Chernobyl and everything,
around that technology in
Russia in that time in the '80s.
It's fascinating.
Because we're about
out of time, is there
anything you want to just
finish up on the "Avengers,"
weather wars, control,
control of mind.
>>DYER: One thing
that's interesting
that I noticed when I did an
analysis of Aldous Huxley's
"Brave New World--"
this is a 1932 novel
that he wrote predicting
everything that we live in now.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: Cloning in 1932,
he was writing about.
>>REGINA: Yup.
>>DYER: So the title,
"Brave New World,"
comes from
Shakespeare's "Tempest."
And that is about essentially
the New World, America.
>>REGINA: Francis Bacon's work.
>>DYER: Exactly,
the "New Atlantis."
It's almost like it was intended
to picture where we're going.
And so in "The
Avengers" film, Prospero
is the magician from that
island in "The Tempest."
And he's the one who
creates all these illusions
and he can control weather.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: So I think there's
a very deep connection going
on there in this rather
satirical, goofy film.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DYER: There's a
lot going on there.
>>REGINA: Well, again,
it was predicted.
And actually the
film was made in '98.
And I started really
paying attention
to what was going on by
looking up in about 2000,
and have been ever since.
And I think everybody's been on
to what's going on in the sky
now.
And I've done a few shows on it.
We don't need to go
too much into it.
It's just interesting that
they were predicting that.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Or showing that
back in the late '90s.
So this is to be continued.
Thank you, Jay.
>>DYER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Next up, we'll
be discussing "Ex Machina,"
"Kingsman: The Secret
Service," "Eyes Wide Shut,"
and "Casino Royale."
Meanwhile, you can pick up a
copy of "Esoteric Hollywood"
at major booksellers, or
go to JaysAnalysis.com
for more background like this.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[MUSIC PLAYING]